[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So here is the same
thing, except hold on, I like it when it
says, I'm stuck in a closure.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's put that
there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I see,
that's why I changed it.
Never mind, it can't do it.
Done.
So here we have our closureAlert.
The one thing that we did
change here is we change x to 0
because we're gonna be
changing it when we alert.
And the other thing that we change is
instead of calling it inside of here,
we're just returning it.
This is really similar from our
scope exercises as well, right?
So we return alerter,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Which means that when
we call closureAlert,
we enter into the function body, right?
First thing it does is initializes x at 0.
It sees that we have, whoops.
It sees that we have this alerter
function, skips over it and
then returns it.
And so our funcStorer is storing alerter.
And let's just put that in the console so
we can look at it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
if we just type out funcStorer here, we
see that it's just that function, right?
And the same with funcStorer2.
Again, and what's it doing is
incrementing x and then returning x.
That's what ++x means.
So you add 1 to x, then you return it.
Whereas x++ is you return and then you
add, so it doesn't show up as well.
So, if we wanted to then call alerter,
how do we go about doing that?
>> Speaker 2: funcStore and
then indication?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we just have funcStorer.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
we call it just like that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's it gonna
alert?
>> Speaker 3: One.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, and
then if we call it again?
>> Speaker 3: Two.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Two.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why is it two?
>> Speaker 4: It remembers the scope that
it was in.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And so
this is our closure.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Which is a fancy word.
Just forget the word for now, but
for those of you who are wondering,
that's the closure, and
I'll talk about it a little bit more.
So when funcStorer, we call it,
it's totally referenced
to this alerter function.
So you can kind of imagine that when we
call it, it goes into this function body
and increments x,
then returns it as an alert.
And so x is then 1.
If we call it again.
And I see I'll call you in a second.
Call it again, so this is 1,
it's gonna go back
inside alerter and
it's gonna increment again and
alert it, it's gonna alert two.
>> Speaker 5: Is
that because we're really
kind of storing it?
We're not calling closureAlert,
we're storing it.
Sort of referenced to it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, so
you're storing it in a variable so that we
can access it later and call it later and
that function because of lexical scope
has access to its parent scope still.
So in a way it remembers
the environment that it's from.
>> Speaker 4: So you're calling
the closureAlert but the closureAlert is
returning a function it's going to find
internally.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 4: But you haven't executed
that internal function yet.
>> Speaker 5: So the difference would be
if we on the console just
invoked closureAlert twice, you
just get 1 every time you do closureAlert.
>> Speaker 4: You would get.
>> Speaker 5: If you're not storing it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, exactly.
>> Speaker 4: You would get a new copy of
the alerted function as the return value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
So, if we did funcStorer2, that's still
gonna alert 1 because every time we call
a function it creates a brand new scope.
And did you have a question, Mark?
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH] I just wanted you to
cover preincrement versus post increment.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm.
>> Speaker 2: And then the other question
was is return alerter the same
as calling invoking alerter?
And I think-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
So as far as the incrementer here,
++x, what that does is it adds 1 to x and
then returns it, versus x++,
it returns x first and then increments it.
But that's not important.
>> Speaker 6: By returns you mean
make available to the alert function?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes, yes.
So if we changed it then it would first,
if we did this it would say 0 and
it just isn't very good for my example.
Da, and then the second question is,
is returning alerter the same as
invoking it and returning it, and
the question is absolutely not.
Because if we're invoking it here,
then we can't call it down here.
What we're doing when we don't invoke it,
is that we're just returning
the function definition itself.
So, instead of returning it, if we, right
here we can like console log it here.
Console.log, (alerter).
And this will show us
what we're gonna return.
We'll put this in the console and
kind of look at it.
So again,
we're just console logging alerter.
And then, it's gonna be returned.
And so we know whatever this function
returns is then gonna be stored in this
variable.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
and then there's our console log.
There's our console log there and
then we can also look at funcStorer and
we see that it's the same thing.
And since it's a function now,
we can call it.
If it wasn't a function,
we couldn't call it.
So for example,
if we just returned alerter and
called it already, it's gonna return
whatever this function is returning.
So in this case,
it's not returning anything.
But if we wanted to put a return there,
just for the example, we can return true.
So the change here is inside the alerter
function, I'm returning true.
And then instead of just returning
the function definition, I'm returning and
invoking the function, so it's gonna
invoke the function, and return whatever
that function invokes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
oops.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
then if we look at funcStorer now,
it's undefined.
That's weird.
I changed it.
So, I guess I erased that return true.
So it's undefined because this
function is returning undefined.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But if we return true,
return true, and then did it.
And we looked at funcStorer,
and now holds the value true.
And you can't, true is not a function,
true is a value,
so you couldn't call true,
that doesn't make sense.
So that's why we want
funcStorer to be a function and
not the result of the function.
So that we have this little window into
that parent scope that we can access laer
and it can be very powerful.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And now since
funcStorer is a function, we can go ahead
and call it and then we can call it again.
And this is our counter, we can count.